SAMPLE STUDENT COMMENTS AHMET EMIN TATAR He is very nice and you can ask him any questions in class. (Spring’06-Precalculus) I liked the way the subject was explained. He was always willing to stay and help when needed. He was very good at explaining the subject. (Fall’07-Precalculus) He really cared about the students.(Fall’07-Precalculus) Very Helpful teacher. Very difficult class but he does his best to try and help you out. He does very good reviews for the test and if you do your homework problems you should be fine. I would highly recommend him for Calc 2. (Summer’07-Calculus II) The best part about this instructor is his ability to make the extremely complicated much easier to understand. (Summer’07-Calculus II) Great teacher, fair grader, expresses ideas clearly and helps students a lot. Great class would take Mr Tatar for all math classes. (Summer’07-Calculus II) I liked the material we covered was challenging. It required me to keep up with the work load simultaneously. Mr Tatar was very good at explaining each problem. (Summer’07-Calculus II) I was very happy to have a mathematician teach this class instead of a computer scientist. Discrete Mathematics I, since it is required for Computer Science and not for Mathematics, was oversimplified and had much of the mathematical theory removed in favor of practical applications for Computer Science. Such was not the case with most of this class (except trees). (Fall’08-Discrete Mathematics II ) Occasionally I would ask questions or extend answers to homework problems into small con- jectures. The instructor kindly took the time to consider them and provide a response as to why the extensions I made were incorrect. Very friendly and willing to help students even outside of class time. (Fall’08-Discrete Mathematics II ) I was just emailing you to tell you how much of a help you were this semester. There is no way I would have passed the class without your help. Thank you sooo much! (Spring’09-Calculus II Recitation) I like everything about him. He explained and taught with patience and would like him to teach Discrete Math II during the next school year. (Summer’09-Discrete Mathematics I) Instructor Mr. Tatar was excellent. Excellent presentation of chapters. (Summer’09-Discrete Mathematics I) 1